zameran,

There are several approaches to this, and I haven't looked at which is most efficient. 
But I'll demonstrate a conceptually simple approach that would work to get you started.

For each vertex on a face, define the vertex coordinates according to "azimuth" and "elevation" from the patch's center. 
For example - in a right-handed coordinate system, for a patch that faces the Z+ orientation, your "azimuth rotation" 
vector would be Y+, and "elevation rotation" vector would be X+.

A patch's vertices will range from -45 degrees to +45 degrees in both azimuth and elevation. So to simplify the example, 
lets say your patch is 91x91 vertices. The central column of vertices will have an azimuth of 0 degrees, 
and the central row of vertices will have an elevation of 0 degrees. 
Each subsequent column of vertices from the center of the patch towards its X+ side will increase in azimuthal value 
by 1 degree, ranging from 1 to 45 degrees. Similarly, each subsequent row of vertices from the center of the patch towards 
its Y+ side will increase in its elevation value by 1 degree, also ranging from 1 to 45 degrees. The opposite holds true 
for the negative quadrants (-1 to -45 degrees).

Once you've calculated all vertex normals in the "Flattened" patch-space, rotate each normal value twice: 
once around the 'azimuth rotation' axis by its azimutal value, and then around its 'elevation rotation' axis 
by its elevation value.

So a vertex having azimuth of 25* and elevation of 30* would be rotated around the Y+ axis by 25 degrees, 
then rotated around the X+ axis by 30*. The end result is that each normal will be oriented so that its "pure upward" 
direction is the same as that vertex's radial vector.

These two rotations can be concatenated into a single rotation matrix to make the calculation more efficient.
Again - this isn't the only approach, but it's a starting point. Hope it helps!
On another note: I've been away from this project for awhile now, mostly because my professional 
work has ramped up to a fever pitch over the past several months. It looks to be that way until this Summer, 
unfortunately. Although at that point I'm getting out of the Navy and taking a few years off to pursue various 
other projects and passions. I definitely have fun with this kind of stuff so will undoubtedly return to it in the future. 
But I may be inactive in the thread during the short term.

Navy